1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange"
42
09/02/1945
98.7
$15.99


A.  

"A Clockwork Orange" is a STRING data type- it is text 

42- is an Integer data type as it is a number 

09/02/1945 is a date value

98.7 is a float data type

$15.99 is money or could also be smallmoney



Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A. A datababase is an application that allows users to manage data through an interface. The interface could be on a command line,
GUI or as its own application on a server. It is used when there is a large amount of information to be stored, accessed and quiirred. 
A text file would be used for smaller amounts of data. An example of this could be a bank account. If you are just keeping records for 
your own personal checking account a text file or single page excel file may be sufficient to store your data. If you are keeping track 
of finincal records for a large company where there may be many different bank accounts, payables and payees this information would probably
be better stored in some type of database. Databases allow us to store and organize information and then based on like ids or table properties
pull that inforamtion togeteher for reporting or comparison reasons. 

Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

A. The primary difference between SQL and other conventional programming languages is that SQL statements specify that data operations should be 
performed rather than how to perform them. SQL does one thing, it defines queries. The queries are similar to programs but you dont use them
to make games or web servers, quiers are good and getting information from databases. 

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A. The way I see it there are four main componenets of a database system; users, database applicatioin, Database Management System and
the database itsself. A user of a database system is someone who operates on the UI of the database, this is someone who will use the database
to track things, use forms to enter, read, delete and query data and produce reports. The database application is a set of one or more
computer programs that serves as an intermediary between the user and the database management system. The Database Management System serves 
as an intermediary between database applications and the database. It manages and controls the activites of the database and creates, processes
and administers the database it controls. The functions of database managment system are to create databases, create tables, create supporting
structures, read database data, modify database data, mantaint structures, enforce rules, control concurrency, provide security and preform 
backup and recovery. The Database itsseld is a self-describing collection of related records. A database is made up of tables within a relational
database. 



Database systems are used to hold and store user data and information. Most real world management systems use
database systems for daily operations. 

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A. 

 Table- It consists of columns, and rows. In relational databases, and flat file databases, a table is a set of data elements (values) 
 using a model of vertical columns (identifiable by name) and horizontal rows, the cell being the unit where a row and column intersect.

 Row- row (sometimes called a record) is the set of fields within a table that are relevant to a specific entity. For example, in a table
 called customer contact information, a row would likely contain fields such as: ID number, name, street address, city, telephone number 
 and so on.

 Column - Column is a set of data values of a particular simple type, one value for each row of the database. A column may contain text 
 values, numbers, or even pointers to files in the operating system. ... A column can also be called an attribute.


 Value - The value is the information being stored in the database.  

List three data types that can be used in a table.

A. 3 different datatypes are STRING, DATE and INTIGER 

Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';


From the PAYMENTS table 
SELECT the DATE and AMOUNT


FROM the PAYMENTS TABLE
SELECT AMOUTS 
WHERE AMOUNTS are GREATER THAN 500;

FROM PAYMENTS TABLE
Select ALL records 
Where PAYEE is Mega FOODS

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

A. The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

SELECT email, sign-up date
FROM users 
WHERE user = 'DeAndre Data';

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

SELECT id 
FROM USER 
Where EMAIL = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

SELECT *
FROM user
WHERE ID = 4;

